---
title: Development
---

=Development=

== Installation Guide ==

You'll need to install 'perf' in your system. 'perf' uses CPU performance counters( Performance Monitoring Counters or PMCs). 

1) Install Required Packages like ''libelf-dev'' ''libdw-dev'' ''binutils-dev''  
''libaudit-dev'' by using the following command 
 sudo apt-get install build-essential libelf-dev libdw-dev binutils-dev 
 libaudit-dev libtraceevent-dev systemtap-sdt-dev libunwind-dev libslang2-dev libperl-dev libzstd-dev libbabeltrace-ctf-dev flex bison 

2) Download the Source code for perf-tools v6.3 using the following command
 git clone https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/perf/perf-tools-next.git/

3) Install perf. Perf command is available in packages ''linux-tools-common'', ''linux-intel-iotg-tools-common'', etc. Hence, install any of these. 

4) Run 'make' command to build the project

4.1) It may show an error since the config file is not set and has to be changed. Run the following command.
 ''make xconfig'' 

4.2) We will also need to install qt5 for this. 
Install it using ''sudo apt-get install qtbase5-dev'' OR ''sudo apt install qt5*'' and set the path using 
 ''export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/pkgconfig:/usr/share/pkgconfig''

4.3) Check if qt5 has been installed properly using ''qmake --version'' 

4.4) You might need to set "kernel.perf_event_paranoid = -1" because the "perf record" command may fail due to restricted access to performance monitoring features on your system.

   sudo sysctl -w kernel.perf_event_paranoid=-1
   Note: this should not be done in production environment
   



4.4) Now, Finally run ''make xconfig'' and it will work properly.

5) Go to the root directory of the kernel and run ''perf test''. You will see tests 
passing, skipping, or failing.

== Maintainer Trees ==

=== Kernel ===

[https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/tip/tip.git/log/?h=perf/core tip.git perf/core]

=== Tool ===

[https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/acme/linux.git/log/?h=perf-tools perf-tools] for the current release. Merged to linux-next.

[https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/acme/linux.git/log/?h=perf-tools-next perf-tools-next] staging for the next release.

== Design ==

[https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/tools/perf/design.txt design.txt]


== Latest source tar balls ==

[https://mirrors.edge.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/tools/perf/ mirror]