---
title: Latest Manual Page of perf.1
---


= NAME =

perf - Performance analysis tools for Linux

= SYNOPSIS =

<pre>perf [--version] [--help] [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]</pre>
= OPTIONS =

-h, --help

<blockquote>Run perf help command.
</blockquote>
-v, --version

<blockquote>Display perf version.
</blockquote>
-vv

<blockquote>Print the compiled-in status of libraries.
</blockquote>
--exec-path

<blockquote>Display or set exec path.
</blockquote>
--html-path

<blockquote>Display html documentation path.
</blockquote>
-p, --paginate

<blockquote>Set up pager.
</blockquote>
--no-pager

<blockquote>Do not set pager.
</blockquote>
--buildid-dir

<blockquote>Setup buildid cache directory. It has higher priority than buildid.dir config file option.
</blockquote>
--list-cmds

<blockquote>List the most commonly used perf commands.
</blockquote>
--list-opts

<blockquote>List available perf options.
</blockquote>
--debugfs-dir

<blockquote>Set debugfs directory or set environment variable PERF_DEBUGFS_DIR.
</blockquote>
--debug

<blockquote>Setup debug variable (see list below) in value range (0, 10). Use like: --debug verbose # sets verbose = 1 --debug verbose=2 # sets verbose = 2

<blockquote><pre>List of debug variables allowed to set:
  verbose          - general debug messages
  ordered-events   - ordered events object debug messages
  data-convert     - data convert command debug messages
  stderr           - write debug output (option -v) to stderr
                     in browser mode
  perf-event-open  - Print perf_event_open() arguments and
                     return value
  kmaps            - Print kernel and module maps (perf script
                     and perf report without browser)</pre></blockquote></blockquote>
--debug-file

<blockquote>Write debug output to a specified file.
</blockquote>
= DESCRIPTION =

Performance counters for Linux are a new kernel-based subsystem that provide a framework for all things performance analysis. It covers hardware level (CPU/PMU, Performance Monitoring Unit) features and software features (software counters, tracepoints) as well.

= SEE ALSO =

[[Latest Manual Page of perf-stat.1|<tt>'''perf-stat'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-top.1|<tt>'''perf-top'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-record.1|<tt>'''perf-record'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-report.1|<tt>'''perf-report'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-list.1|<tt>'''perf-list'''(1)</tt>]]

[[Latest Manual Page of perf-annotate.1|<tt>'''perf-annotate'''(1)</tt>]],[[Latest Manual Page of perf-archive.1|<tt>'''perf-archive'''(1)</tt>]],[[Latest Manual Page of perf-arm-spe.1|<tt>'''perf-arm-spe'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-bench.1|<tt>'''perf-bench'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-buildid-cache.1|<tt>'''perf-buildid-cache'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-buildid-list.1|<tt>'''perf-buildid-list'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-c2c.1|<tt>'''perf-c2c'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-config.1|<tt>'''perf-config'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-data.1|<tt>'''perf-data'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-diff.1|<tt>'''perf-diff'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-evlist.1|<tt>'''perf-evlist'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-ftrace.1|<tt>'''perf-ftrace'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-help.1|<tt>'''perf-help'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-inject.1|<tt>'''perf-inject'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-intel-pt.1|<tt>'''perf-intel-pt'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-iostat.1|<tt>'''perf-iostat'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-kallsyms.1|<tt>'''perf-kallsyms'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-kmem.1|<tt>'''perf-kmem'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-kvm.1|<tt>'''perf-kvm'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-lock.1|<tt>'''perf-lock'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-mem.1|<tt>'''perf-mem'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-probe.1|<tt>'''perf-probe'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-sched.1|<tt>'''perf-sched'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-script.1|<tt>'''perf-script'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-test.1|<tt>'''perf-test'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-trace.1|<tt>'''perf-trace'''(1)</tt>]], [[Latest Manual Page of perf-version.1|<tt>'''perf-version'''(1)</tt>]]


= KERNEL VERSION =

This page is auto-generated.  The kernel version is v6.10